The first one is that I think there are quite a few cynical people outside of this hall
and thinking, is there any point in having a summit on peace?
And to them, I think the simple answer is to say that, as a matter of fact,
if you don't talk about peace, you can't achieve it.
And the mere fact that we have 60 heads of state government here,
that we have 100 countries, I think is an achievement in and of itself.
And I think for us in the global West, it's very important to listen to the voices that we've heard here.
Today, I've listened attentively to the president of Kenya, president of Ghana and Chile,
prime minister of Qatar, and the foreign minister of South Africa.
There are wars waging around the world, and they call for peace as much as this one.
Now, for those who don't come from next to Russia,
you must also understand that a lot of us are worried.
We have 1,300 kilometers of border with Russia.
Since the 1300s, we've had over 30 wars and skirmishes with Russia.
Russia invaded Finland in World War II.
We lost 10% of our territory, including the land where my grandparents were born
and where my father was born.
This is why the reaction from our side has been so vehement.
My second point is that I actually think this has been a good week for peace.
Why?
Because of this summit, because of the G7 summit,
because the EU negotiations for Ukraine started this week,
and because of the support that our NATO allies are giving to Ukraine.
So I think that Ukraine actually starts this path towards peace from a position of strength
much stronger than what it was three weeks ago, let alone three months ago.
My third and final point is, when we talk about peace,
it's important to talk about the nature of peace.
And here's where I think it's very important to listen to not only President Zelensky,
but all of those who say that this has to be a just and sustainable peace,
which is based on international law and the UN Charter.
It also means that we need to have a follow-up to this meeting as soon as possible,
because peace is very rarely an end state.
It's always a process.
And let me finish off by saying what my predecessor and mentor,
President Ahtisari, once said.
What humans began, begin.
Humans can also end.
So I hope that this summit will be the first step in the path towards peace.
Thank you for the invitation.
And Slav Al-Krej.